What if I told you that lawyers in New York were driving up the price of apples.
Take a look at this chart,
tracking both of these values from 1992 to 2006.
Since they increase and decrease in a similar pattern,
maybe lawyers like to eat apples so much that apples are forced
to cost more or maybe it's the other way around.
The more expensive apples are,
more people welcome lawyers to pay for them.
This seems kind of silly, doesn't it?
It's a big leap of logic to say that the number of lawyers is directly
connected to the price of apples simply because they have a mathematical relationship.
After all, there might be other variables that we haven't considered.
The population of New York has steadily increased over the same time frame,
and inflation will naturally increase the price of goods as time goes on.
So, the relationship that we see in the original plot might simply be a coincidence.
The number of lawyers and the price of apples might
both be going up based on other factors across time.
It's relationships like this that give meaning to
the phrase that correlation does not imply causation.
Just because you see that two variables are related to one another
doesn't mean that when one changes the other one is cost to change as well.
However, there will be cases where you do want to
say that one variable causes another to change.
You might want to say that changes to your website cause visitors to make more purchases
or maybe you want to show that changes to
your recommendation engine provide better search results to your users.
To test your hypotheses,
you should run an experiment.
This is why experiment design is so important for data scientists to know about
to understand the scope of conclusions that they can make from their data.
In this lesson, you'll learn what it takes to build an experiment.
You will learn about the types of experiments,
ways of measuring outcomes,
and pitfalls to check for when designing an experiment.
By the end of this lesson,
you will know what is required to create
experiments that effectively addressed your goals.